**This is a HW I game out on the game "Prey"**

Since Prey is \$40, you can watch a lets play here:

[[PREY Gameplay Walkthrough Part 1 FULL GAME \[1080p HD PS4 PRO\] - No
Commentary]{.underline}](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m1xjexCtAFc)

Here are the relevant timestamps:

First watch from the beginning. You can skip / fast forward most of the
beginning, the important part is when a few of the doctors give you a
psychological test. Be warned, there is a bit of a scare at the end of
the section.

Pause the video after you\'ve seen the beginning. The game developers
put the test in for a reason, what would that reason be? Think about the
questionnaire and how it could potentially be related to the rest of the
game. Continue thinking about the questionnaire as you watch the other
sections.

The next section you should watch is at 3:05, but it requires a bit of
context. You are on a spaceship that is researching the typhon. These
are deadly shapeshifting aliens, but by studying them your team has
managed to create these wonderful devices called neuromods. Neuromods
confer special abilities, though if you ever remove them, you lose the
memories you made while the neuromod was implanted. In this section, you
encounter a prisoner that your team was going to kill via typhon in
order to understand them better. Given the amazing power of neuromods,
what do you think about your teams actions?

I couldn\'t find a good example for the next thing I want to talk about.
If you want to watch something, I guess you could watch 6:09. I guess
I\'ll just describe it via text: Occasionally during the game you are
asked to rescue civilians on the ship. They beg for you to put them on
escape pods. Knowing that the typhons can shapeshift into anything, its
extremely dangerous to send out an escape pod, since it means the typhon
could get back to earth. Think about this and its implications.

The next section is at 8:16. Morgan attempts to justify his research on
the typhon. What do you think about his justification?

The next sections are 8:26 and 9:14. The neuromods allow us to forget
everything we\'ve done. How can our actions be moral, and how can we be
ourselves, if none of that exists in our memories?

Finally, watch from 10:13 to the end of the video. No real prompt here,
just what did you think?

After all that is done, watch this video essay by Extra Credits:

[[Prey - The Enemy Inside - Extra
Credits]{.underline}](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z3QsCy4ekWk&t=284s)
