#coherentism

People go through phases depending on how many friends they have (and
thus what they are looking for). Initially, people go to activities they
know they enjoy as a way to find people in those activities that they
have something in common with. Over time, they shift their focus from
activities to people, deepening their relationships with the people they
previously met and trying new activities with those people.\
Of course, everyone is different. If you are looking to invite people to
activities, form groups of your own, form individual bonds, everyone
treats those slightly differently. Some people appreciate that you added
them to a group chat and will be active on it. Some will show up to your
activities only if you message them individually. This is personally a
big point of frustration for me, though it is understandable. Many a
times I assume someone isn't interested in my activities or me because
they didn't respond to a text or didn't respond in the group chat. Thing
is, some people are just bad at texting. Some appreciate individual
messages instead of group chat stuff. Yeah it's rough\
I saw a lot of success in group activities, people enjoyed playing DnD
or having big movie nights or whatnot. While those were all well and
good and created neat social groups, what ended up happening was that I
didn't strengthen bonds with people because I would never hang out with
them in smaller groups. Having DnD every Friday night was great in
getting to know my DnD group, but it meant that I never got to go out
with just one or two people on that Friday night.\

[[who am i]]
[[movies]]
